Aloo Paratha is a popular Indian flatbread stuffed with spicy potato filling. Whole wheat & vegan.

-----------------------------------
PREP TIME           15 mins
COOK TIME           15 mins
TOTAL TIME          30 mins
SERVINGS            6 paratha
CALORIES            171 kcal
-----------------------------------

INGREDIENTS

2 medium potatoes 1 cup mashed potatoes (aloo)
1/4 teaspoon ajwain also known as carom seeds
1 green chili finely chopped
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
1/4 teaspoon cumin powder
1/4 teaspoon garam masala
1/4 teaspoon amchur also known as dry mango powder
1/8 teaspoon red chili powder or adjust to taste
3/4 teaspoon salt or adjust to taste
3-4 teaspoons oil to cook the paratha Dough
1.5 cups atta also known as durum whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon vegetable oil
1/4 teaspoon salt
water to knead the dough


INSTRUCTIONS

-:Make the dough:-
In a bowl mix together whole wheat flour (atta), oil and salt. Add water little by little and mix.
Knead to form a smooth and soft dough. Cover and let the dough rest for 15-20 minutes.
Divide the dough into 4-6 equal parts.

-:Make the filling:-
To make the filling, mash the boiled potatoes and transfer to a bowl.
Add chopped cilantro, salt, ajwain, chopped green chili, cumin powder, chat masala, garam masala powder, amchur and red chili powder.
Mix till everything is well combined. The stuffing is now ready.

-:Make the paratha:-
Take one of the dough balls and using your rolling pin roll it into a circle. Apply little oil (optional) all over the rolled dough.
Place 2-3 tablespoons of stuffing in the center. Don't overfill else it will be difficult to roll.
Bring all the edges together and pinch to seal the edges.
Flatten the dough ball using your hands.
Now using your rolling pin, roll the dough to a circle of 7-8 inch diameter. The trick here is to apply equal pressure while rolling. If you do that, your paratha will turn round automatically.
Transfer the rolled paratha onto the hot tawa.
Cook the side for a minute or two and then flip over. Apply oil [around 1/4 teaspoon] on the half-cooked side and flip again.
Now apply oil on the other side as well. Press with a spatula and cook the paratha till both sides have golden brown spots on them.
Repeat with the remaining dough balls.
Serve aloo paratha hot with butter, pickle and a cup of chai!

