Punjabi samosa are crisp fried Indian snack with a spicy potato peas filling. This recipe will give you flaky & crisp samosa that are full of flavors. Serve these with green chutney or mint chutney.
-------------------------------------
Course       -    Breakfast
Cuisine      -    Indian
Prep Time    -    15 minutes
Cook Time    -    25 minutes
Total Time   -    40 minutes
Servings     -    10 samosa
--------------------------------------

INGREDIENTS (1 CUP = 240ML )

-:For samosa dough:-

1. 2 cups all-purpose flour (250 grams)
2. ¼ cup oil or melted ghee (60 ml)
3. 6 tablespoons water (¼ cup + 2 tbsp )
4. ¾ teaspoon carom seeds
5. ¾ teaspoon salt

-:For potato filling:-

1. 4 potatoes (500 grams)
2. ½ cup green peas (boiled or frozen)
3. 1 tablespoon oil or ghee
4. 1 tablespoon ginger minced or paste
5. 1 to 2 green chilies chopped (optional)
6. 1 pinch hing (asafoetida) (optional)
7. 4 tablespoons coriander leaves chopped finely
8. 1 teaspoon lemon juice (or ½ tsp amchur or chaat masala)
9. ½ teaspoon salt (adjust to taste)

-:Spices:-

1. ¾ teaspoon cumin seeds
2. ¾ to 1 teaspoon garam masala
3. ¾ teaspoon red chilli powder (adjust to taste)
4. ½ teaspoon cumin powder
5. ½ teaspoon fennel powder (optional)

PROCEDURE

1. Boil potatoes just until done without making mushy. You can either boil them in a steamer, pot or a cooker.
2. Crumble them, do not mash them up. Set aside.

-:Make samosa dough (or use frozen puff pastry sheets):-

1. Mix together flour, carom seeds, salt and oil in a mixing bowl.
2. Rub the flour well for 2 to 3 mins in between the palms to incorporate the oil or ghee well.
3. Take handful of flour and press down with your fingers. It must hold shape and not crumble.
4. Add water little by little and mix the flour to form a stiff dough. It should be stiff and not soft dough. Cover and rest for 25 to 30 mins.

-:Make potato filling:-

1. Heat a pan with oil. Add cumin seeds.
2. When they begins to sizzle, add ginger & fry until it smells good for about 30 to 60 seconds.
3. Next add green peas and saute for 2 mins.
4. Add red chilli powder, garam masala, cumin powder, chaat masala (optional) & fennel powder. Saute for 30 seconds.
5. Next add potatoes and sprinkle salt. Mix and saute for 2 to 3 mins. Mix in coriander leaves & set aside to cool.
6. Taste and add more salt if needed. If using lemon juice, add it now.

-:How to make samosa:-

1. Knead the dough gently to smoothen a bit. Make 5 portions and roll to balls. Cover the dough.
2. Grease the rolling area and then flatten a ball. Drizzle some oil.
3. Begin to roll to oval shape of 8.5 inches long by 6.5 inches wide. It should be neither too thick or too thin.
4. Cut it to two parts. The 2 parts make 2 samosas. If the edges are too thick, gently roll it to thin down.
5. Take one part and apply water over the straight edge (towards the cut side). Join the edges to make a cone. Press down gently to seal the cone from inside as well.
6. Fill the cone with potato masala and press down with your finger to push it inside the cone. Smear water generously on both the other edges.
7. Bring the edges together and seal them by pinching off the edges together. If you prefer to make a standing samosa, make a pleat on one side. Bring back the pleat and seal it by pinching off the edges together.
8. Make sure the samosa has been sealed well. Cover them with a cloth to prevent drying.

-:Deep frying:-

1. After you make 5 samosas, begin to heat the oil until medium hot.
2. Oil has to be medium hot and not very hot. A piece of dough dropped in the oil should not sizzle or rise immediately. Instead you should see tiny bubbles in the oil & the dough should take a while to come up to the surface. This is the right temperature.
3. Gently add as many samosas as you can to the oil and fry them on a low flame undisturbed for few minutes (about 10 to 12 mins).
4. When the crust becomes firm, increase the flame to medium. Rotate them to the other side and fry until crispy and golden.
5. While the first batch of samosas fry, make the rest of them.
6. Remove the golden fried ones on to a colander. Let the temperature of oil come down slightly before you fry the next batch.
7. Serve samosa with mint chutney sweet tamarind chutney or tomato sauce.

-:Baking samosa in oven:-

1. Preheat the oven at 180 C or 360 F for about 20 mins. Brush each samosa generously with oil all over and place them on a prepared tray. Bake these for about 35 to 40 mins.





